john.podesta@gmail.comb'Although sewer line replacements continue at the intersection of 3rd Street and Massachusetts Avenue, I am happy to say that the sewer beneath the sidewalk in front of McDonough Hall has been completely replaced. The installation of a temporary asphalt sidewalk should begin on Monday, August 11. Once the sidewalk is in, the fences in front of McDonough will be moved back to the curb line and there will be unimpeded access along the sidewalk between E Street and Massachusetts Avenue.\nPlease be aware that this does not mean that 2nd Street itself will be reopened. The next phases of utility work will be to install new water lines and new power transmission and distribution lines. These will run down the middle of 2nd Street. Thus, the street will remain closed and the GUTS Bus stop will continue to be located at the corner of 1st and F Streets.\nAs the sewer utility work winds down, I thought I would finish the story of the Swamps and Sewers of D.C. Today, 600 miles of storm sewer pipes, catch basins, inlets, special structures and related facilities move water and sewage out of the city and into the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers. The runoff from those sewers is the primary source of pathogens that cause impairments to the District\'s local waterways. Over 34 miles of rivers and streams in and around the District of Columbia do not support swimming and aquatic life. Contributing to this ecological quagmire is the condition of the system itself. Some components of the existing storm sewer system are over 100 years old and much of it is in a state of disrepair. Several years ago, floods inundated the lower levels of government buildings along Constitution Avenue. In response, the government began construction in 2010 of the National Mall Levee across 17th Street, N.W. just south of Constitution Avenue. The levee is expected to hold back flooding when the Potomac River overflows its banks.\nhttp://www.ncpc.gov/DocumentDepot/LeveeFactSheet.pdf\n\n[Image: Illustration of proposed barrier on National Mall]\nThe project, however, is already behind schedule and the contractor has been fired. In addition, , flood waters engulfed the Bloomingdale neighborhood, north and west of the Law Center, three times within ten days in 2012.\nhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/post/bloomingdale-dc-flooded-three-times-in-10-days/2012/07/20/gJQAFuaOyW_blog.html\nSuch floods are not a new problem but they are exacerbated as climate changes and water levels in the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers rise. The DC Water and Sewer Authority (WASA) is responsible for maintaining and replacing the sewers, pumping stations, and filtration plants that reduce floods, prevent disease, and maintain the health of Rock Creek and other receiving streams and the health of the Anacostia and Potomac Rivers. It is a huge and expensive job. When new construction projects occur, such as the I-395 Capitol Crossing Project, developers are often required to assist WASA\'s effort by replacing and upgrading the sewer lines that accommodate their projects and to replace the sewer lines adjacent to the new development. This is what we have been witnessing since June.\nFlooding exists in D.C. because the city was built on what geologists call the Coastal Plain. The Coastal Plain was formed millions of years ago by ancient oceans and rivers. As the waters receded, the land turned into swamps. In my last Construction Note, I described the early work by Boss Shepherd to drain the swamps and move the storm water and sewage out of the city. Despite his efforts, flooding had not abated in the city by the time he departed for Mexico in 1876. By 1877, most of the Tiber Creek was enclosed in a sewer, but other sewers still backwashed into the James Creek and into the swamps at the source of the Anacostia River. In addition, the flow of Rock Creek was too weak to carry away sewage from the Northwest. As a result, the Potomac remained polluted near the monuments.\nIn 1882, federal funding afforded a partial fix when the marshes behind the monument grounds were filled in and a tidal basin and a deep channel from Long Bridge to Arsenal Point were built to control water flow. An additional series of improvements to reduce flooding and remove sewage were made around the end of the nineteenth century. In 1890, sanitation engineer Rudolph Henning and a group of engineers recommended constructing a trunk sewer with pipe lines to serve the most populous sections of the city and a pumping station at the base of New Jersey Avenue that would convey sewage underneath the Potomac. The waste water would flow through the system and then be discharged into deep waters three miles downriver to flow away the city. Congress approved the project but refused to fund it. Some years later, the Board of Trade, encouraged by an economic revival, convinced Congress to invest in what was thought to be the "most vital question" facing the city. Because of the Board\'s efforts, many of the remaining open sewage canals were enclosed, and lines were created to carry sewage farther from the city\'s most populous areas. The project was half finished by 1901 at a cost of $2,000,000.\nSewer construction continued to be a haphazard program throughout the twentieth-century. By 1907, the Main Pumping Station was constructed to pump most of DC\'s sewage across the Anacostia for discharge farther down the Potomac. The improvements, however, were so expensive that Congress became unwilling to allocate more money for the project until taxes were raised and the debt from the sewer project was paid off. Making matters worse, Congress, in 1916, authorized Maryland to send sewage from Prince Georges\' and Montgomery Counties through the DC system. The combined volume of waste soon became too great for the Potomac to assimilate, so the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority\'s constructed the Blue Plains Advanced Water Treatment Plant to provide primary sedimentation processes before wastewater was discharged.\nDC\'s population grew rapidly during and after World War II, again taxing the sewer system. A series of studies and expansion plans ensued. A 1957 plan prepared by the Board of Engineers\' Frank Marston, Samuel Greeley, and Gustav Renquardt proposed constructing relief sewers parallel to existing lines, new pumping stations, and "force mains" to carry sewage from the pumping stations to the treatment plant. This proposal resulted in the development of three interceptors, three pumping stations, and three "force mains" that remain in use today.  https://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20100924112133AA3Ap3t\nA 1960 plan to separate the sewer into sanitary and storm water components over forty years proved too difficult and the plan stagnated after a few years. Two more studies, in 1970 and 1973, were inspired by Chicago\'s adoption of its Tunnel and Reservoir Plan. They both contemplated building deep tunnels, mined caverns, and surface reservoirs to contain combined sewage off-line. Both proposals were subsequently rejected because the projected cost of each was over $1 billion.\nIn 1971, the DC Board of Public Works began laying the underground sewer pipes that would become the current Combined Sewer System. A combined sewer system meant that storm water and sewage would run through the same sewer lines and directly into our natural waterways. The EPA funded a 1983 study that resulted in a two-part plan that primarily addressed sewage overflow to the Anacostia River. Part one of the project, completed in 1991, added the Northeast Boundary Swirl Facility (a second treatment location) and inflatable dams at eight locations -- where combined sewage overflowed most -- designed to prevent future overflow. Part two of the 1983 project would have added two more swirl concentrator facilities, separated more of the sewer system, and established a screening facility at one of the discharge points. As has happened too often in the city\'s history, a lack of funding shut down the project.\nToday, approximately two-thirds of the pipes in the District of Columbia\'s sewers serve "separate" systems - one for sanitary water (which contains waste from homes and businesses) and one for storm water. The remaining third of the pipes are part of a "combined" system, where sanitary and storm waters are carried together. Most of central DC, including the Law Center campus, is served by the combined system. During dry weather, all the water in the Combined Sewer System is processed at the Blue Plains Treatment Plant, but during periods of heavy rainfall, DC sewers still overflow into natural waterways.\nAnother plan, developed in 2002, lays out recommendations for infrastructure changes in the District as well as plans for rehabilitating and expanding facilities on the Anacostia and Potomac Rivers, at Rock Creek, and at the Blue Plains Treatment Plant. The plan would carry capital costs of more than $1.2 billion and cost $13.3 million annually to operate and maintain. The plan projects a 95.8% reduction in overflow for the entire system - from 3,254 million to 138 million gallons annually. The long-term plan has resulted in adoption of the $2.6 billion Clean Rivers Project. The first phase of the project - construction of a huge system of underground tunnels to control wastewater flow to the Anacostia River - is currently underway. It will result in a 98% overflow reduction by 2022.\nhttp://www.dcwater.com/cleanrivers\nClean water and sanitary discharge are essential to the health of our people and to the economic vitality and sustainability of the city and the nation. We have been too cavalier with our water supply for too long. One way or another, we will have to change our behavior and find the resources to solve this problem. As we do, we need to be patient as our streets and sidewalks are torn up and new lines are installed.\n\nWally Mlyniec\n\nThanks to Haley Etchison, GULC 2016 for her research for this Construction Note.\n\nOur sources were:\nGeorge S. Hawkins, Storm Water, http://www.dcwater.com/about/cip/stormwater.cfm\n\nDC Water Proposes Modifying Long Term Control Plan for Green Infrastructure, District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority, www. dcwater.com/green<http://dcwater.com/green> (last visited July 15, 2012).\nDistrict of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority, Combined Sewer System Long Term Control Plan (2002).\nDepartment of the Army Baltimore District Corps of Engineers, Metropolitan Washington Area Water Supply Study, Appendix D: Supplies, Demands, and Deficits (1983).\nConstance McLaughlin Green, Washington: A History of the Capital, 1800-1950 (1976).\n\n\n'