john.podesta@gmail.comb"Dear Colleagues,\nWith admiration, gratitude and a little sadness, I write to follow up on Vice President Kilkenny's announcement that our terrific Director of Disability Services, Laura Cutway, has transitioned to the main campus to become the university's Title IX Coordinator. I have no doubt that Laura will continue to serve us and our students well in this exciting senior role, but hers are large shoes to fill.\nLaura has made remarkable contributions over the last five and half years here at the Law Center. She has provided accommodations, counseling and support to hundreds of students with physical, learning, attention deficit and psychological disorders, often identifying creative solutions that have permitted her students to take full benefit of our academic and co-curricular programs. Students regularly cite her compassion, dedication and expertise, often noting that they could not have succeeded in law school without her. She has been an important partner to our faculty and staff, helping us to support individual students but also nudging us all to design our spaces, programs and courses so that they afford every student not just equal access but the opportunity to thrive. Laura also has overseen with care and relentless attention to detail the administration of hundreds of exams to our accommodated students every semester. Outside of the Law Center, Laura has made Georgetown proud as a subject matter expert on the international stage, emerging in recent years as a sought-after speaker on professional school disability services at global disability rights conferences.\nWe will feel Laura's absence outside of disability services as well. Four years ago, Laura took on a second important function at the Law Center, as Sexual Assault and Relationship Violence Liaison (SARVL). In that role she has counseled and supported student survivors of sexual violence and partnered closely with Law Center and main campus leadership to enhance the university's sexual misconduct policies and prevention programs. In part based on Laura's dedication to and support of student survivors of sexual misconduct, as well as her mentorship of our thriving Advocates Against Sexual Violence student organization, Georgetown Law has been cited as an innovator and leader among law schools in both preventing sexual misconduct and addressing the needs of its survivors.\nIn light of her innovative and dedicated work in both roles, it is hardly a surprise - and of course a great honor - that Laura has been named the university's first full-time Title IX Coordinator. We look forward to working with her and benefitting from her expertise in that new position.\nI hope you will join me and the ODOS team in celebrating Laura's contributions and wishing her well at an informal gathering on Friday February 12 from 3:00-4:30 p.m. in the Hotung Faculty Dining Room.\nWith best wishes for the new semester,\nMitch\n\nMitchell C. Bailin\nAssociate Vice President and Dean of Students\nGeorgetown University Law Center\n600 New Jersey Ave. NW\nWashington DC 20001\nTel. (202) 662-4066\nFax (202) 662-4067\n\n"