john.podesta@gmail.comb'%%FIRSTNAME(I)%% hope this email finds you well.\n\nHope you\'re able to make it to Denver for the convention.   If you\'re going to be here, let me know.\n\nIn case you haven\'t heard, one of the highlights will be the Big Tent we\'re co-hosting.  Email if you want more information about it.\n\nGreat news. Below are the updates from each of our sister states: CA, CO, FL, MI, MN, NH, NM, OH, WA and WI.\n\nAs you can see from our success, we\'ve been getting results, but we have huge demands in front of us.\n\nLet me know if I can call you to discuss how you can be of help.\n\nHave a nice weekend.\n\nMike\n303-931-4547 cell\n\nBig Tent Denver: ProgressNow National is co-hosting "The Big Tent" during the Democratic National Convention in Denver Aug 25-28, 2008.  The tent, underwritten by Google, Digg and others in partnership with DaiyKos and the Alliance for a Sustainable Colorado. The tent consists of two levels: one level will be open to the public and will have a YouTube stage and other real time opportunities to bring the conversation in Denver to the world.  The other level will be for online journalist and bloggers as a lounge--complete with couches, wi-fi, beer and Chipotle, for individuals to have a relaxing place to produce content to turn the convention into a global conversation.  To learn more about the big tent go to www.BigTentDenver.org\n\nCalifornia. The Courage Campaign continues to build community, build our list, and build power as an independent force empowering nearly 100,000 progressives in California. Currently, we are waging three accountability campaigns: 1) BushRubberStamp.com: New web site includes a 30-second TV adth Congressional District to inform constituents about Rep. David Dreier\'s 93.6% rubber-stamp voting record in support of the Bush Administration; 2) "Censure the Senator": 12,080 Courage Campaign members just voted overwhelmingly (95.4%) to push for a California Democratic Party censure of Sen. Dianne Feinstein for her FISA votes supporting telecom immunity in addition to a string of votes contrary to Party principles. Over 300 donors then contributed nearly $8,000 in less than fifteen hours to pay for an organizer to bring the censure resolution; 3) Assisting SEIU-UHW with its organizing efforts at St. Joseph\'s Hospital System in Orange County. we are currently airing in California\'s 26\n\nCourage worked closely with Common Cause, election integrity activists and County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky to force the LA County to count over 47,000 decline to state (independent ) votes that would otherwise not have been counted in the February 5th presidential preference primary. We also forced and participated in the redesign of the ballot so that the form of error that caused the problem would never recur. As a result, the ballot worked  in the June state primary. (LAT story)\n\nColorado. ProgressNow has led the way in holding McCain accountable to his record.  Last week PNA held a press conference prior to a McCain visit.  Following our press conference we captured video in which Carol Kreck a 60 year old librarian volunteer was cited outside the townhall for holding a sign, in line, that read McCain=Bush.  PNA captured the harrassment by McCain\'s security detail and within hours it was on YouTube. Over 200,000 people have viewed the video in the past week and it was featured for two nights on MSNBC\'s Countdown with Keith Olbermann.  In addition, PNA has used the internet to develop a rapid response team to hold McCain and other elected officials accountable to their record.  To view a recent story of how the ProgressNow model works click here.  For other partner organizations interested on how to develop their own rapid response team, please contact us.\n\n"In a state controlled by Republicans, a new group is looking to use the Internet to help organize voters and build support on "progressive\'\' issues." - Daytona Beach News-Journal\n\nFlorida. Progress Florida went live on May 21st and the launch was met with great fanfare including great TV, radio, internet and press coverage in every media market in the state.  In addition to the great press we received and continue to receive, including four stories in Florida\'s largest newspaper - the St. Petersburg Times, our network of online activists has more than tripled in just two months.\n\nThe speed in which our network is growing is due in large part to the successful online organizing and media coverage we\'ve generated around three right-wing driven Constitutional amendments on the November ballot.  We\'ve been working closely with the Florida Education Association to defeat two amendments that would eliminate the wall between church and state and allow taxpayer vouchers for private religious schools.  Additionally, we\'ve been working in close collaboration with the two committees formed to defeat the so called "marriage protection" amendment - Fairness for All Families and Florida Red & Blue.\n\nProgress Florida is turning up the volume for progressive groups doing great work in Florida.  South Florida\'s Hold the Line coalition have been staunch defenders of the Everglades - we made sure they got statewide media coverage by delivering a nearly 60-foot long petition signed by thousands of Floridians to the governor\'s office.  As the Florida Education Association prepares to do battle against two anti-public school amendments we are framing the debate with key opinion leaders in the press.  The two committees fighting the so-called "marriage" amendment on Florida\'s November ballot need third-party validation that they represent the mainstream of Florida and that the sponsors speak for the radical right.  Progress Florida has been there time and time again helping them make sure Florida voters know the truth.\n\nMichigan. Progress Michigan helped launch a major health care campaign across the state in July.  The campaign is made up of allies in labor, health care, consumer, civil rights, and faith-based organizations.  The push forms the vanguard of a major state and national effort to make health care work for people and hold insurance companies accountable for unfair practices.  Press coverage was strong in all four locations of the launch.\n \nProgress Michigan continues to stand alongside coalition partners in opposing a massive influx of coal-fired power plants in MI.  Major front page stories in the Free Press and in AP, TV and radio coverage were garnered in July.\n \nAn updated website and hits on John McCain and his connection to the foreclosure crisis also undertaken.\n\nMinnesota. In late June, ABM completed the second of three \'08 polls and shared the information with America Votes partners which use the data and messages in their direct voter contact and communications work.  ABM also launched a TV ad criticizing Norm Coleman\'s ties to oil companies and high gas prices, which received widespread coverage by local print, TV, blogs and National Journal\'s Hotline. Polling after the ads ran showed more Minnesotans believed Coleman was "not on their side" (language taken directly from the ad) by an increase of 9 percentage points since March.  \n\nABM worked with its coalition partners to coordinate anti-McCain press events that highlighted McCain\'s dismal record on foreclosures, opposition to the GI Bill and his do-nothing healthcare plan.  The events were attended by Minnesota Public Radio, local TV and the Minneapolis Star Tribune.  ABM provided research and messaging to labor groups that demonstrated outside of McCain\'s invite-only town hall and a separate high-dollar fundraiser.  To coincide with McCain\'s visit, ABM launched www.mccainvminnesota.com, which received over 5,600 visitors and was featured on Daily Kos, MSNBC.com and the Huffington Post. ABM also launched www.pawlentypoker.com, which allows the user (Pawlenty) to gamble away Minnesota\'s future by pandering to McCain and the right wing (featuring cameo appearances by Karl Rove, Dick Cheney and Larry Craig).\n\nABM is turning the RNC in its home town into an opportunity to share with the world the real story behind the last eight years of conservative policies. We will be working with bloggers and other new media to push out the progressive messages during the RNC through expert panels and with other progressive groups from all issue areas.  ABM will also be coordinating with Democracy for America to put on trainings for progressive activists and build something that lasts beyond the convention week.\n\nABM held a press event with Minnesota members of Iraq Veterans Against the War (IVAW) to bring attention to McCain\'s opposition to the GI Bill and his long record of voting against increased health care for veterans.  By holding this particular press event, ABM helped Minnesota veterans share their stories and spread their message in advance of Senator McCain\'s visit. \n\nABM co-hosted a similar press event with ACORN that allowed victims of foreclosure to tell their stories of how the housing crisis has directly affected their lives.\n\nNew Hampshire. Granite State Progress launched in mid-June and has quickly gained credibility among the NH netroots community as an effective and powerful messenger. They partnered with the state\'s leading progressive blog, Blue Hampshire, for feedback and support on targeted message frames. Just this past week, in light of growing recognition of Granite State Progress among traditional media, conservative activists and leaders in the state started pushing back online and in radio shows - and getting off-message in the process.\n\nGranite State Progress is working hard to strengthen progressive communications capacity across the state. In four short weeks, Granite State Progress provided logistical support, message framing and media outreach for activities as varied as the Bush Legacy Bus Tour, Health Care for America Now! Campaign (garnering TV coverage across New England) and John Sununu\'s Supreme Court votes. They are also the main messaging vehicle to push back on a tax cap effort, challenging a ballot initiative in 8 towns critical to November elections. They recently pulled together grassroots organizers and netroots activists to coalesce around message framing and branding for the targeted US Senate and Congressional races, and are providing research to the public and press about conservative IE\'s in NH through "Con Watch."\n\nThe NH Advantage Coalition is pushing an out-of-state plan (read: Grover Norquist) for a restrictive local tax cap in 8 towns critical to November elections. Granite State Progress is one of the conveners of a coalition forming to challenge it. GSP is coordinating message framing and providing further research. The coalition has been slow to move for political and financial reasons. Meanwhile, NHAC - run by the founder of a Republication communications firm - has racked up over 40 stories in two months. Granite State Progress initiated an action last week calling on the group to \'Stop Clowning Around\' - a dressed-up street action that had great response partner organizations, netroot activists and political reporters. It got the ball rolling to present the \'other side\' of the story, and it would not have happened without Granite State Progress.\n\nNew Mexico. In May, Clearlynewmexico.com kept up a steady drumbeat calling for ethics reform in the face of the overwhelming role of big corporations and their lobbyists in New Mexico politics. That drumbeat had an effect - in the June primary, 3 veteran, pro-industry legislators were dumped from office by progressive new challengers. We also interviewed General Mel Monta\xf1o, a retired military leader in New Mexico who is leading the national effort to educate the public about Senator McCain\'s Iraq policies and have hammered President Bush and McCain on their proposal to expand offshore drilling. We have just begun two exciting projects. We have begun a new series which will profile everyday New Mexicans who are being impacted by Senator McCain\'s policies on health care, veterans\' issues, the environment and the economy. And we are in the middle of a comprehensive evaluation led by Professor David Nickerson from the University of Notre Dame to assess whether we are moving the values and policy positions of moderate voters.\n\nOhio. ProgressOhio\'s website visits are up 99% from 2000 and over 477,438 unique people visited the site in the first six months of 2008. PO has now partnered with over 254 non-profit and community organizations in pro-bono public relations and online organizing since it\'s inception. More important is the depth of visits to our site as there were over 5.9 million page views in the first six months of 2008 alone. In 2008 we have added 27,472 new members increasing total membership to 352,338 constituents. Our action rate is up 88% from 2007 including sign-ups petitions and emails to legislators and newspapers. Over 300 Ohioans have become PO bloggers and 1,086 have networked in the past six months.\n\nSUCCESS STORY: ProgressOhio\'s unique online to offline action program has produced three major impact outcomes in the past few months.\n\n    * In April, our research about the funneling of money from a group run by Charter School magnet David Brennen to a Virginia PAC and back to Ohio conservative candidates produced a record $5.2 million fine by the Ohio Elections Commission.\n    * In May, our work as the online voice of a campaign to lower the Ohio Pay Day Lendings 391% annual interest rate, resulted in pressure that had legislators lower the overall rate to 28% -- one of the lowest in the nation.\n    * In June, our research from early 2007 that outgoing Governor Bob Taft had signed the wrong version of a bill that did not include an onerous provision aggregating labor donations at the State, County and local levels was overturned. ProgressOhio\'s research was the determining factor in a Judge deciding that since the Governor signed the Bill without the right amendment language, the Bill was void.\n\nWashington. Fuse continues to build a stronger progressive movement in Washington State, continuing to grow it\'s list of activists and developing an impressive communications program.  During the last quarter, Fuse:\n\n    * Challenged McCain\'s focus on greenwashing during his visit to Washington by linking him to big oil on KIRO News.\n    * Generated over a dozen major TV and Newspaper earned media hits, including powerful and effective critiques of Republican Gubernatorial candidate Dino Rossi, linking McCain to big oil, and coverage of our legislative awards.\n    * Lanched our Sizzle/ Fizzle awards - designed to provide entertainment, recognize great leadership, and increase accountability for bad performance. The Columbian dida great story on the awards.\n\nFuse is now adding a Communications Director to its staff team to further strengthen this work.\nFuse helped the issue groups working on several key bills successfully defuse a veto threat facing three important progressive bills, by organizing a coalition of 40 of Washington\'s leading progressive groups, and generating actions from over 2500 progressive activists, all urging to Governor to "stand with the people of Washington and sign these bills."\n\nWisconsin. OWN has continued its campaign for judicial ethics, filing a format complaint with the Wisconsin Office of Lawyer Regulation against new conservative Supreme Court Justice Mike Gableman. OWN\'s research shows Gableman made dozens of fundraising calls from his District Attorney\'s office phone for former a fundraiser he hosted for Gov. Scott McCallum\'s unsuccessful re-election campaign. Potential penalties range from private reprimand up and to disbarment - which would result in the Democratic governor appointing his replacement.\n \nOWN\'s protect on the state\'s largest business lobby and issue ad financier, WMCWatch.org gained statewide notoriety when one of Dane County\'s (Madison) largest employers said they would no longer do business with companies on the board of WMC. Immediately, one of the state\'s largest construction companies dropped out of WMC.\n\nThe Institute for One Wisconsin, OWN research and education c3 wing, houses the state\'s civic engagement project director and assists with guidance and counsel. The IOW Protect Wisconsin\'s Vote Education Summit, scheduled for July 24, has provided the election protection coalition with a much-needed interactive website (www.ProtectWisconsinsVote.org) of information for the public and partner organizations - as well as a voice for discussing the many progressive issues surround voter protection, including: the myth of voter fraud, voter suppression, the harm of voter ID, bilingual needs, ex-offender re-enfranchisement and what to do if your right to vote is threatened. Partnering organizations include: the Milwaukee Area Labor Council, Voces de le Frontera, the League of Women Voters of Wisconsin, ACLU of Wisconsin, Disability Rights Wisconsin.\nProgressNow is proud to announce our National Board!\n\nWes Boyd, Martin Collier, Rob McKay, Doug Phelps, Jared Polis, Deborah Rappaport, Bill Roberts, Jeff Rusnak, Anne Summers, Ted Trimpa (Chair) and Joe Zimlich\n\nAdvisors Include: Alexandra Acker, Karen Ackerman, Jennifer Ancona, Adam Bink, Kafi Blumenfield, Bill Budinger, Marc Buell, Anne Bartley, Patricia Bauman, Jeff Blum, Heather Booth, Robert Borosage, David Brock, Anna Burger, Steve Cobble, Noey Congdon, David Donnelly, Cathy Duvall, Christian Ettinger, Patricia Evert, Kirstin Falk, Gloria Feldt, Ricki Feller, Josh Freed, David Friedman, Meg Gage, Beth Ganz, Chris Gates, James Golin, Ellen Golumbek, Ken Grossinger, Jill Hanauer, Honorable Gary Hart, Jerry Hauser, Bracken Hendricks, Norty Kalishman, Craig Kaplan, Paul Lhevine, Paul Loeb, Mark Lotwis, John Luongo, Mike Lux, Awilda Marquez, Matt MacWilliams, Tony Masarro, Peter Murray, Sandy Newman, Eli Pariser, Steve Phillips, Drummond Pike, John Podesta, Mike Podhorzer, Zach Pollet, Carl Pope, Rachel Pritzker, Andrew Rasiej, Cecile Richards, Will Robinson, Robin Rorapaugh, Donald Ross, Ron Rowell, Catalina Ruiz-Healy, Laura Quinn, Marsha Scott, Steve Silberstein, David Sirota, Frank Smith, Greg Speed, Rob Stein, John Stocks, Valerie Tarico, Betsy Taylor, Roy Temple, Gloria Totten, Lisa Turner, Michael Vachon, Phil Villers, Antha Williams, Al Yates, Jon Youngdahl, David Zwick.\n\n _____\nThis email was sent to john.podesta@gmail.com.\n\nTo unsubscribe, go to: \n  http://www.progressnowaction.org/unsubscribe\n\n'